---
permalink: /research-statement/
title: "Research statement"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /research-statement.html/
---
To whom it may concern,

I am Benoît Guérand, I am an engineering master graduate from both Arts et Métiers ParisTech and Karlsruhe Institute for Technology with experience in computer vision research and also work experience accumulated through internships, to wit: [Mercedes Benz](https://www.mercedes-benz-tech-motion.com) and [CACEIS](https://www.caceis.com/fr/) bank. I was also a professional athlete in water-polo. I am drafting this statement to apply to the PhD program of the mathematical department of the National University of Singapore, to begin in august 2025. I believe my past experiences in research, my work ethic, interdisciplinary and international education make me a strong candidate that will participate in developing our mathematical understanding of the field of machine learning.

I began my academic journey with rigorous preparatory classes in France, where I developed deep knowledge in mathematics and physics. This experience solidified my analytical thinking and equipped me with the scientific rigor necessary to succeed in graduate studies. During my second year at Arts et Métiers I chose to write a bachelor thesis on the “mathematical errors in deep learning”. This was my first introduction to machine and deep learning and also the first time I matched research in both mathematics and machine learning. At KIT, I continued my academic education by focusing on machine learning and data science. During my studies, I had the opportunity to engage in various internships that not only deepened my technical understanding but also provided practical experience in applying mathematical concepts to real-world problems.

One of my most impactful experiences was a six-month internship in Luxembourg, where I developed and optimized mathematical models for financial products. This work demanded precise mathematical analysis and introduced me to the mathematical field of optimization. Following this, I worked at the [Steinbuch Centre for Computing (SCC)](https://www.scc.kit.edu) in Karlsruhe on a project involving hyper-computer systems. My role was to implement preconditioners in solvers for a [mathematical library](https://www.scc.kit.edu/en/aboutus/13077.php), which enhanced my computational skills and introduced me to new mathematical tools used in hypercomputations.

The highlight of my research experience came during my master’s thesis at Mercedes-Benz, where I undertook an independent research project in computer vision. I was tasked with detecting open car flaps on production lines using deep learning techniques. Starting the project from scratch, I chose to implement ResNet50, a computer vision algorithm, and carried out the entire process—from setting up the cameras and capturing training data to deploying the algorithm in a production environment. This project taught me how to independently manage a research project from start to finish and led to a [publication](http://wscg.zcu.cz/WSCG2022/full/C03-full.pdf) as the first author at the Winter School for Computer Graphics 2022 conference. This experience honed my research skills as well as gave me invaluable insight into writing scientific papers and improving it based the reviewing committees remarks.

Building on my experiences, my primary research interest lies in improving the mathematical understanding of machine learning algorithms, particularly in the potential of transformers and mixture of agents. Transformers have shown remarkable scalability in large datasets, and I am interested in how they can be applied to improve the efficiency of models dealing with complex, high-dimensional data. However, beyond scalability, I believe the incorporation of a mixture of agents offers a powerful framework for handling diverse, evolving tasks. This multi-agent setup could provide a more nuanced approach to decision-making in machine learning, allowing for better generalization and adaptability in dynamic environments, which are closer to real life situations.

One challenge I aim to explore is preventing model collapse in such systems, where agents may converge to suboptimal behavior patterns or fail to diversify their roles effectively. This issue is particularly relevant when models face mixed discrete and continuous inputs or when they need to operate across varying scales. Current methods, like Bayesian optimization, can be limiting when scaling to large datasets with complex input spaces. This is a common scenario in many practical applications, but current optimization techniques are often inadequate in handling this combination efficiently. By integrating a mixture of agents, I believe it is possible to design more robust systems that can reduce these risks. Additionally, transformers could play a key role in enabling these agents to process large-scale data more efficiently, helping to maintain balance and avoid collapse in large, multi-agent frameworks.

The National University of Singapore stands out as an ideal institution for pursuing this research. Indeed, the Department of Mathematics at NUS has a strong emphasis on applied mathematics and computational mathematics, which align perfectly with my research interests. I look forward to the opportunity to contribute to the vibrant research environment at NUS and collaborate with faculty and fellow students who share my passion for mathematical innovation and machine learning. Moreover, I would be honored to work with Professor Doctor Tan Minh Nguyen as he shares similar research interests. I look forward to start new research projects under his supervision.

I also went to Singapore multiple times in the past and had the opportunity to visit the city for long stays. I took the opportunity to visit the NUS campus, and I was captivated by its architecture and modernity. These past experiences, even as a tourist, convinced me of the relevance of my application as a graduate student as I am sure it is an environment that will help me thrive and take my research to the next level.

I thank you for considering my application for the PhD program to begin August 2025. I am looking forward to knowing your decision and remain at your disposal for any additional information or documents you may request, as well as for an interview if you were to deem it helpful.

Yours faithfully,

Benoît Guérand
